April 
April Hurst 
Hi Bobby! Hope life is treating you well! I’ve seen how well your business is doing via social media. That’s awesome! I’m actually contacting you because my husband and I are looking for a contractor to repair + remodel our shower. Is that something that you and your team do? I’m happy to call and/or go through your website to give you further details, but wanted to give you a heads up here first, so if you see an April calling your business, it’s me April (Erickson) from Jr. High 😊 lol. Thank you!!

Oh hey April well yeah we do that, what do you want done?  Please send me an address your cell phone email and possibly some pictures of the current space? Do you have a materials list of all the stuff you want installed? What's your timing look like for the  project start date? Paint colors, baseboards, lighting, vanity, shower or bath? Flooring type, any dry rot on subsheeting? Sink & hardware, tub surround or tile?

Demo list like above?

Hi Bobby,
Our address is 7057 NE Birch St. Hillsboro, OR 97124
503.998.8568

A little detail on what we need: when we moved in there was a glass shower door that was old and we didn’t like it, so we removed the shower door and patched up the tile that was damaged in the process. In turn we had to patch some of the wall. Overall, I think the builder just didn’t go a great job on the shower and unfortunately water has gotten behind the tile, onto the drywall. We don’t know the extent of what’s back there, but it’s become a bit of an urgent need to fix it as literally a few tiles caved in last night. Yikes!

There are no other areas in the bathroom that need any repairs, just the shower and part of the wall between the shower and the toilet.

What we are considering doing is removing the tile ourselves, but we are nervous about doing any mold removal ourselves once the tiles are off.

We are also considering buying the new tiles, so that the service we need to outsource is the labor and retiling, but hopefully to save a little money we could buy the tiles.

We are also concerned about how long a project like this may take, as unfortunately this is the only shower in our home (we have a ½ bath downstairs)

I can send you pictures once I get home today. But if you think this is something you could give us an estimate on, that’s great!
Thanks,
April
