Araceli & Rigoberto Brambila

Araceli & Rigoberto Brambila
brambila.araceli@gmail.com
971-275-0599

Hey Capri,

Please send me your availability to meet up tomorrow or the next day 
to explore the possibilities, discuss your options, develop a plan.  

I can offer you a 1 time consultation or an an ongoing consultation 
depending upon your needs for the project?

Please send me your full contact information?

Are we in the very beginning & planning stages of the building process or land purchase?

Do we have drawings, blueprint plans from Multnomah county or are there 
any land locations in Washington or Clackamas counties?

What are some of the major options that you want included in your home design?

Topics to discuss in person: Per Consultation Options/pricing tbd on needs & option you choose.
Blue Prints
Lot Size
Grading to build
Water
Sewer
Gas
Electrical
Concrete foundation, driveway & walkways
Permitting Process
Builder Options
Materials Options & purchasing & Delivery to site
Materials Vendor Relationships through ACGI
Construction Schedule
Contracts & CCB Notices
Payment Terms-Progress payments after down payment
& full materials are paid to start the project
Scheduling
Subcontractor Teams
Inspections 
Landscaping
Etc
Turn Key


Thanks Bobby!

It depends how much time we would need to speak. I work a 10 or 11 hour
shift tomorrow, but am off for the most part on Wednesday and can be
flexible.

We are looking into some acres in Multnomah county on Germantown Rd NW
Portland.

I was going to try and get preapproval first or should we speak and then
get preapproval depending on our conversation?

We live in a home we bought 5 years ago, but that has been our only
experience.

This will be our first time building a home from the beginning and buying a
lot/land.

This is the land we are interested in. Feel free to let us know your
thoughts regarding buying this land.

14180 NW Germantown Rd, PDX, OR 97213


https://www.zillow.com/homedetails/14180-NW-Germantown-Rd-Portland-OR-97231/176379843_zpid/
