Dan Church notes
Bobby's Notes
Digest verses & study 
Ask God to lead me & tell me what to say
Get people involved ask Questions 
Have someone volunteer to read the verses

Small group leading questions 
1 What are some Unsalty & Dark areas of our lives that you have chosen to hold onto? 

2 How does a Christian relinquish control of their own life & live in the fullness of God's love?

There are all sorts of Dyadic relationships all around us that we can see with out naked eye & cannot see 
Love vs Hate
Light & Dark
All through genesis
Creation
Old testament old covenant 
New Testament new covenant 
Heaven & Earth
Black holes
Dark matter
Subatomic level Think Ant Man
Dimensions 

God is mathematically precise w anything he creates & engineers. God is in the details, not the devil.
God is perfect in all he does, says & in his ways. 

We are a reflection of God living in us. We are not meant to absorb light like a black hole but to reflect to a lost world of unbelievers held in darkness & chains the Love of God covers over a multitude of offenses & sins.

The enemy only can copy God, which he distorts, warps, manipulates   to his own ends. He is the author of chaos, disorder, confusion.

Took chaos & brought it into order under the command of his word

Speaking words of love or the antithesis: life & death in the tongue 

How often do we speak to others with the latter rather than the prior taking place? Life & Death in the  tongue,  All the time... how often.

God created our universe to be relationally correlated & interconnected thats why an electron can exist in 2 places at once like 1 on earth the other on the moon

God is beyond the fabric of spacetime.

Is anything impossible or to big for God? 

John 8 v 12-30 
Eph 4 v8-11Ascended Descended 
Darkness represents chaos
Matthew 5 v 14-16 salt & light

Psalm 119 89-92
9 For ever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven.
90 Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.
91 They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all are thy servants.
92 Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction.


Psalm 43 v 3
Send me your light and your faithful care, let them lead me;
let them bring me to your holy mountain, to the place where you dwell.

James 1 17
17 Every good and perfect gift is from above,coming down from the Father of the heavenly lights, who does not change like shifting shadows.

Revelation 21 v 23
23 The city does not need the sun or the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light, and the Lamb is its lamp.

Psalm 27 1
The Lord is my light and my salvation
    whom shall I fear?
The Lord is the stronghold of my life—
    of whom shall I be afraid?

Light is a symbol of flourishing wholeness & life
Day by day are you growing closer to the light or growing closer to darkness & chaos?

Isaiah 49 v 6
he says:
“It is too small a thing for you to be my servant
    to restore the tribes of Jacob
    and bring back those of Israel I have kept.
I will also make you a light for the Gentiles,
    that my salvation may reach to the ends of the earth.”

1 john ch 1 v 5-7
Light and Darkness, Sin and Forgiveness

5 This is the message we have heard from him and declare to you: God is light; in him there is no darkness at all. 6 If we claim to have fellowship with him and yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live out the truth.7 But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, his Son, purifies us from all[a]sin.

Light is a symbol of flourishing wholeness & life
Day by day are you growing closer to the light or growing closer to darkness & chaos?
