Parables 2
Nov 12 2017 church notes
Matthew 13-31-32 Mustard Seed parable.

Grows easily, aggressive like a weed
V33 yeast working its way through dough. Gospel, the word, the Good News.  God's word made manifest in the Life of Christ.  

Kog starts small grows & expands into what God purposes & wills for his creation.
Less is more, a dab ll do you, little goes a long way.

KOG- Kingdom of God
Is unexpected or different or upside down or the antithesis of how the world operates & thinks. Think inception & doctor strange, buildings moving updownside 

Will change you 
How often do our expectations go unmet?  Lower or change them?
Do we expect a lot from God or do we put it on people in our life.

13 v 10-17 Why God speaks in parables

What we know not adding to or taking away.

Why behind what others do?  What the scriptures teach.  Who Jesus is, what he's about, 

John 13 v 34-35 Love each other as I have loved you.
Condition of your heart, relationships

God takes small seamingly insignificant things to bring about the KOG

Are you a part of the KOG or not? 
Do you want an endless adventure, exciting, never dull eye opening experience & relationship?

vs or do you want to be a creature of comfort Kingdom... a selfish kingdom unto yourself? Getting out of your personal box & comfort zone. 

What has God put in your hands & mind? 

Are you being obedient w what God has given & gifted to you.

KOG is in us, we are the salt & light, we rep Christ wherever we go. 


God created a never ending art gallery w what he created, visible, tangible matter, subatomic level, foundations of the universe, 

The jews participated in the sacrifice of animals which Alluded to the sacrifice of the spotless lamb on the cross. Word picture of God's redemptive characteristic of his nature, & intercessor -(mechilzidek, a royal priest hood, Lion of the Tribe of Judah) between man & God.  God is truth, holy, righteous, & pure. He's a shield of protection against nontruth, 1 truth destroys a multitude of lies.  Wickedness is the lie.  Truth is God.   Which will you choose in your daily life? 
