Credit Article 

Almost everyone has debt. You take out a car loan, you buy a house, you open a credit card account, and you're on your way to building your credit history.
However, high levels of debt or getting behind on your payments may have a negative impact on your credit and may keep you from accomplishing goals. That's why it's important to have a plan to pay down the debt you accumulate.
While chipping away at your overall debt may seem overwhelming, there are some strategies you can use to make progress. Let's explore some options to get you started.

How can I pay down my debt?

There are a couple of different approaches you can take when paying down your debt. You can pay down your smallest debt first, and then move on to the next one, and so on. This will help you reduce your overall debt faster. Another strategy is targeting those debts with high interest rates first because they will cost you more in the long run. If you can't afford to pay them off completely, you can also look into reducing the interest you pay on these debts in a variety of ways:

Balance transfers: Transferring the balance of a higher-interest rate credit card to a card with a lower interest rate could provide breathing room while you pay off the debt.

Refinancing: Securing a lower interest rate or reducing the length of a loan could help you save money over time.

Debt consolidation: Combining all of your debt into a single loan could simplify your monthly payments.

Once you've determined which strategy you'd like to use, check the terms of your accounts to avoid any fees that may come with paying off debt early. Also, make sure that while you focus on one debt at a time, you're still making the minimum monthly payments on all of your other debts.

How do I maintain the strategy I choose?

Once you've chosen the right debt repayment option for you, it's important to keep at it. Your credit health will not improve overnight, and that's okay. With this approach, you're going to be able to pay off debts, save money, and eventually pay off even larger debts. It will just take time.
Keeping momentum is key for a plan to be successful. To help maintain your strategy:

Pay all of your bills on time: Consider setting up an autopay or a reminder on your calendar to keep you on schedule.

Paying off revolving credit: Consider keeping your paid-off credit cards open. This reflects positively on your credit.

By staying on the path and not getting wrapped up in more high interest debt along the way, you should be able to maintain your strategy and move toward your goals. 

Key takeaways

Reducing what you owe on your credit accounts is an important part of managing your credit health.

Consider whether paying off small balances or high-interest accounts first is the best option for you.

In some cases, refinancing, transferring balances, or consolidation could reduce what you pay in interest or help you manage your monthly payments.

No matter which strategy you choose, keep making your minimum payments on all of your accounts.
