ACGI 2020 Business Plan

Grow ACGI into a publicly traded company 1 day with an IPO & some Reasonable stock options for contributing to the growth of my company in the future. OPTIONS TBD Based on input/output commensurate to contributions over time as we develop the Organization.

The Game Plan 

Get an actual formal business & marketing  strategy/plan with SCORE.


I need a legal shield type representation, with a dedicated collections team if I get stiffed by homeowners xyz again...dirtyowners.com could play a role in this.  

Answering service.

Professional photographer for jobs, drone integration at some point.

1800 ACGI HOMES

Secretary & Business Location to put the Group in ACGI...Teams of subs, that are qualified rigorously and given a small test job to test knowledge and craftsmanship skill level... 


The main goal/plan is to be able to put down the hammer & paint brush & just look at jobs full-time and manage projects and having systems in place that allow me to do that and stay highly organized and on top of my s***. 


Run estimates/ leads/pre-bids, sign contracts via email doc u Sign or similar free service. It looks like SMS is going to be a very big part of my business if I can do this huge siding job out in Happy Valley for them and keep them happy. 


They signed Zillow so they're going to be probably flipping a lot of their properties I am I got approved for a 22 k a siding job that's with materials like 5K, they want me to paint it so tgat could be another 5 to 8k which could be the Catalyst that helps me pay off of all my debt get me to the overall goal of having actual employees or only running Subs fulltime on sms, ferrandino & son jobs & ACGI jobs which would be ideal and the subs do the work Under the Umbrella of ACGI as additional insured w Chamberlain Insurance. 


I want steady growth, I don't want too much growth at once, I would like to see 2 to 3 painting Crews going all year round, to start with just 1- 2 man team and then build up from there to 3 or 4 man teams. Same With General Contractor Services.


I spent years developing these systems that I can show you that I've never shared with you but it's a lot of information and it's pretty overwhelming, Greg actually helped me develop some of it he was good at organizing files & creating sub systems. 


Promos and Newsletter sign up:

They should be mutually exclusive on your site.  If your promo gets them interested enough to click it then we should get them directly to contacting you.  In the near future we will want them to fill out the contact form with information on the project they are thinking about.  A good balance of input information on the form will weed out the ones who are serious about needing your help and those who are just prodding / window shopping.

A newsletter sign up should be a separate form accessible anywhere on your site.  We will also include an option to sign up for the newsletter when they are filling out the contact form.


A Good balance of input info. entails what?


Did I send you the questionnaire I developed to curb that cuz I was tired of wasting my time. Budget for the job is big? People dont like answering that? Cuz it puts them at a disadvantage and they like shopping, plus they want it cheap & they want Leverage usually on price.  


Realtor Marketing- Section on the Site:

Realtor signs up & then we send the info below:

ACGI offers Realtors a Leverage point advantage in the Real Estate market by helping them negotiate 

Buyer Contingencies (BC's) from inspection reports. ACGI charges a flat fee or minimum of $350-$495, (pending Depth of Estimate & man hours spent putting it all together) for a tailored proposal that works in their favor w BC's. The consultation fee is mailed overnight,  I look at the job & send them the proposal same day. "Guaranteed to help you close your listings quickly & efficiently."


Property Management Marketing- Section on the Site:

ACGI offers Prop mgmt co's 

Renovation & Remodeling Projects, New Construction,  General Repairs, Painting.

All ACGI Services are applicable
