How 2 lose a woman in 90 Days Guaranteed 

How 2 lose a woman in 90 Days Guaranteed 
Authors: Bobby Andruszko & Gina Miller 

Ch 1 invite a female friend over on your 1st date. Tell her your food is more expensive than you thought. Ask 4 money w a serious & sincere concerned look on your face?

Ch 2 Continue to text & call women from your past, don't tell her about it, dont tell her there is 1 or 2 you love. 

Ch 3 Tell her shes just another Blip On My Radar Screen

Ch 4 Let her casually find out that you smoke herb everyday.  Hide it from her for 2 or 3 months then ease her into it once she has let her guard down

Ch 5 Go 2 church together & use profanity when you cant find the right seating be loud enough so that people notice & can hear you. Act like you didnt say anything wrong.

Ch 6 Always road rage on every occasion 
Dont rage discriminate w the people from your social groups be inclusive

Ch 7 Dating Go on movie dates w your kids & your parents & dont invite her

Ch 8 Talk about your ex gf a lot & compare your lady to her saying that she falls shory in a lot of categories 

Ch 9. If shes still w you & you have had sex Make sure to make her have you bfast ready in the morning and do your dishes & takes out your trash & recycling like a true down ass broad would be like

Ch 10. Tell her that One of those girls from the past is someone that you love and you hope to marry

Ch 11. Tell her you're struggling financially to pay to go on dates cuz you loaned money to women in the past hundreds of dollars that they still owe you & these are the same women you are tt right now

Ch 12 When you go to her place tell her that you dislike one of her pets and offer to dispose of them quietly or open up the door to let them out and Escape.

Ch 13. Chapter 13 bang the crap out of her and give her the fear of pregnancy. destroy the condom so it feels like your stuff got everywhere. Let her feel your stuff dripping down her ass crack but have some olive oil ready nearby just in case you run low on your load disposal center

Ch 14. Continually blame her for all your problems. Take no responsibility for your actions whatsoever make excuses about your behavior, minimize wherever possible and own Nothing you say or do. I always keep her 2nd guessing...

Ch 15 wrestle w her and accidentally sock her in the nose or the jaw. Or just smack her in the face

Ch 16. Spend the night at a female friend's house drinking wine by an open fire giving her back rubs come home at 6 a.m. When You're Sobered up.

Ch 17. Invite female friends over from your past that hit on you + tell your girlfriend about it. But do not invite her over to your place for the meeting.

Ch 18. Go travel to Europe for a month b4 you go & go tell your girlfriend if there is wild European women out there. And that they may overpower you & there may not be anything you can do about that. Be sure to bring your gold pimp jacket

Ch 19.
Tell your girlfriend How women dress in Spain and tell her that American women are entitled & are feminazi's for having expectations 

Ch 20. This is the perfect time to tell your girlfriend that you should take a break for a month. Be very casual and laid-back about it like you just got done taking a piss and that's what you're telling her about or you just ate food and you were telling her what type of food it was.

Ch 21. Now take that bullshit back and tell her that you didn't mean it and that you still want to be with her

Ch 22 Have a genuine talk about your goals and tell her that you want to quit drinking smoking cigarettes or weed but don't follow through with it and call the quit lines or seek out NA or AA meetings. Tell her that your higher power is your vices.

Ch 23. Invite your girlfriend over for family shindigs for dinner and argue with your parents in front of her. Tell your mom to fohgettaaboutit and then go into the bathroom and slam the door loudly. Then start cussing loudly inside the bathroom but try to keep it down so that not everybody can hear you but only some people can

Ch 24. Give your girlfriend back rubs all the time and then ask her to rub your back once in awhile and see if she actually does it or if she is a lazy bliptch deserving of the name

Ch 25. Sabotage communication with your girlfriend and don't ask her what you want directly but rather you should accuse her of never doing these things and always being selfish

26. Refuse to make your needs a priority, like buying the $100 massage table your girlfriend recommended. Instead, complain about your aching body and lack of buying power.

27. Hide the contents of your phone. Keep it a secret, keep it safe on lock down like I do all my bishes.

28 don't give her any sex for 2 months dont kiss her or show her any affection whatsoever and tell her you just lost your libido for awhile & your just not in the mood lately 

29. Call your girlfriend the B word. Swear like a sailor. See if she can hang.

Ch 30 Dont offer to cook her anything after cooking n cleaning for her for a couple months then pull the old switch eroo on her

31. When you're sick and she cares for you with healthy cooking, tell her what she provided is nasty.  Especially if it was burnt Or anything green And refuse to take your vitamins Or drink any sort of healthy tea

32. Spike your hair like you were in high school again. Then ask her if she likes your hair style. If she doesn't you can tell her to gfy herself. If she does give her a hug and kiss and say that's why you're my main bish.

33. Start casually introducing using the word Hippo when referencing your girlfriend while talking to friends, clients or family.

34. When in a social gathering with your shared friends, comment something about a gold ring in a pigs snout then post a pic of your gf with a quick illustration on Adobe photoshop

35 complain all the time about how she doesn't pay you back quick enough 

36. Treat your body like a human garbage can

37. Don't compliment her at all about what she's wearing or how her hair looks or how pretty her eyes are.Don't forget to mention how cute her shoes are because women are way into their shoes

38. When you see an old high school buddy at the grocery store with their significant other, stand there and talk forever and never introduce your girlfriend. Make her do it herself.

39. Start being very smug with yourself all the time

40. Instead of telling her to get some exercise, suggest she gets punched in the face a few times and start her own version of Fight Club for women only. Make sure to suggest this in the morning upon waking before you kiss her.

41. Tell her to leave your house all the time and point your finger at the front door and tell her she knows where her shoes are if she doesn't do what you ask her to doOr she says something that really pisses you off and hurts you.

42. Instead of working through problems, suggest another break

43. But tell her she can sleep over on the weekend and go to church with you to keep up appearances

44. Tell her it's time you got closer to God and you're sorry for inviting that 24 year old woman over to work off her debt.

45. Hit your girlfriend over the head with a club if she ever comes back

46. Post something derogatory on social media

47.  When she tells you she's going on a diet Dont buy her roses for the entire relationship thats for symps & L7's, instead buy her fast food & carbs & tell her its very yummy & thats all you can afford rn

48.Dont clean your toilet or your bathtub and dont clean your sheets or blankets & stop doing laundry for a 2 or 3 weeks

49. Eat from 2 or 3 fast foods joints then invite your gf over for movie night dont take a crap, fart and dutch oven her  but pretend you want a kiss and have a something to give her under the blanket then hold her under the blanket for as long as you can

50. Tell her you've been thinking about going on speed dates to meet other women as a social experiment and its on your bucket list. Proceed to make bucket list in front of her

51. Tell her the gal you've been pining for, penpalling for almost 18 months is someone you've decided to never stop talking to Ever

52. Take pictures of you and your girlfriend crop yourself out of the pictures and then go to a meme generator on Google and talk about drugs alcohol sex whatever comes to mind with your girlfriend and post them all over Facebook and Instagram but they have to be funny enough to post.
