Personal

Leadership
Courage
Spiritual warfare
Invisible realm
Doing life together


Your focus determines your reality

Why does Jeb allow his peeps to die? Testimony of blood,  end times revelation,  drawing closer,  salvation thru deaths, memories of peep who passed, he who loses his life will find eternal life

Pray
Study scripture
Take Action

I want to see this movie idea n duel n utube n freestyle n my reality tv show take root & inventions allow us to do What we really want to do & produce movies & direct them, write screenplays you name it that's when we will have a staff taking notes for us going into production not some dude or entity telling us how it's going to be.  We Call the shots all we need is a good support staff surrounding us to go to the next level.  I say we write the screenplay w some pizza & we get it out there & make some major business moves to ensure our success.   We expand on scene titles & refine story solidifying the essence of the film & morphing into an informative yet humorous & entertaining piece.   Do we go with the ideas in chill zone about keeping it hidden not glorifying it but exposing that world from our perspectives & paradigms? Or do we insert our biases into the film & go a completely different route? we need focused objectives, high points & low points a great intro & a hobbit 2 oh no continuation point at the outro into next film.  what are our objectives? historical perspective, war on drugz & epic fail include brain on dugs commercial, legalization, present day politics & monetizing incorp. In taxes.  The aforementioned could lead to a documentary but we also can stay w original idea of storytelling. 

What is the heart or main thesis of our story?  Smoking fascilitates the creative process or it could be a culmination of cumulative stories interwoven to tell a bigger pic story.  What crazy people do when they are ripd.  The dudes in the story love experimental pathways,  they enjoy exploring the unknown realms. Who are their allies & foe (s)? How do our stoner heros save the day & What is their cause & why do they fight evil w good? Weaponry?

Chronic crusaderz... injustice of what sort plauges our heros from progression into the next level? Spiritual implications of smoking... relational... expository lens of outsiders looking in at mokers behavior- introspective look from non smokers & the audiences lenses.  Negatron look at health risks exposed... DD slang rituals.    Motivations behind escapism I.e. movie for 2 hrs escape reality, why do we enjoy it so much more so than others.  It helps us forget & say flup it but does it hurt us more than it helps?  Spectrum analysis of highs n lows consequences present & or unforeseen, overarching idea that puffing dulls senses pain makes them cry cough laugh flow motivate give energy hurts short term memory & steals memories,  stops dreaming,  munchies, decision making impedance in some & enhanced in others, reaction time quickens w practice & familiarity,  libido increase, messes w digestive system, increases shlips, eyesight degradation,  family and friends & how it affects those relationships.  Moral position smoking influences you to do what you normally wouldn't do because it inhibits your fears, like some introverts drink n become extroverts transformed instantly.   Smoking allows our characters to shed social masks & be their true selves.  Smoking is socially acceptable in Amsterdam why not here?  People may abuse it but no one dies from too much of it impossible to klill you. People sniff lines of keefer Sutherland,  ask joey.  Peer pressure to smoke is high how can we right the equation matrix style? 
