Rant 05/10/20
We still got a lot to learn about life & how things really work in the spiritual realm.  Maybe if you take your eyes off of the world for a moment & turn your eyes to the heavenly reality in front of you that has been in front of you the whole time it might change your outlook your perspective personality your lens your paradigm your whole life will change from what it is today to limitless possibilities tomorrow.  Wake up out of your slumber & lackadaisical thinking see the enigmatic riddle of the Eternal/Kingdom and see what is truly everlasting in a minds eye that focuses on the Kingdom of God, see with your faith not your own eyes God gave you... what you build your life on is what you will reap. If you sow your life on the chaff it'll blow away in eternity cuz it will be shown for what it is Chaff a chasing after the wind, pursuing futile things. The chaff is anything in this world that doesn't have eternal value or significance.  If you build it on Gods Word n promises you will clearly see that sowing righteousness to Glorify God in your life is the only thing that has eternal Value simply cuz he created us & gave us salvation free will & choices my love. You see our choices is all that we really get to take with us from this Body to the heavenly spiritual Body in heaven & when the Great day of the Lord is upon us & every deed is proclaimed in front of All then if you truly accepted Jesus & gave him Glory with your life then your Good... but if you just lived for yourself and did your own thing & are cowardly selfish & evil you will have no part in that Kingdom. The alternative to the KOG is not pretty, look up Gehenna ... unquenchable fire... 

As you die to self & stop being your own little god you need to let the God of the Heavens Space Time the Universe, deeper into your heart so he can clean you out from the inside out. I know you're a beautiful woman but that eventually fades. If you build your life on the eternal your beauty as it fades will not matter  cuz God will be your light & sustenance and live inside you. Plus where your heart is there your treasure will be also. So build on Gods riches, Glorify Jesus & him with the fruits  of  your life & the holy spirit will guide you & make your paths straight. You dont want to be 40 or 50 & look back & say I built my life upon foolishness and chaff but I built it upon God alone & He Transformed me from a sinner to an eternal winner as his Child.
