Scene 1
Scene 1
EXT-DAY-GREECE 6TH Century BC 
Three friends plot out detailed plans for a quest they are about to embark upon.

Sage 1 -Solon Location
Sage 2 Thales
Sage 7

Cut to 
Backstory- Meeting with Solon 
Commission
Initiation
Planning
Preparations
Discovery of hidden map 
Tells location of Golden Tripod which was given to the wisest sage.

To admit 1 sage was the wisest, was folly & pride. The Tripod was passed from Sage to Sage.
Dedication to Apollo,  held to be the wisest of all. The key was hidden at the site. As Solon was Dying, he told his closest protégé the location of the map to find the key at the temple of Apollo.
Solon's dying words spoke of an additional map that was located within the golden tripod. The Tripod is the key. Breathes his last. Protégé mourns the loss of the 8th Sage. 

He gently calls in servants to attend to ceremonial burying. 
Protégé finds map for the GT & quickly conceals it.

Cut to
Ext-Afternoon-Cemetary
Quick service
Mourning, crying, black clothing

Int - Solon's House
Finds will & testament
Takes Solon's favorite valuable possession,  his books.  Servants carry books to boat, loads up, sails away to home where his 2 friends await his arrival. 

EXT-DAY-Greg's House-Rooftop over looking agean sea. Waves fold in distance, lightning & storm clouds abruptly move inland.

A cool breeze ensues as the son is setting. Enter 2 friends. Guess what? Solon the Sage,  my Mentor & Friend has died. He left me this, slowly, hesitantly pulling out the map. Andy- What is this, you found a map, to what he asked inquisitively? Gregorious-Limitless power, riches, honor, glory? Exacerbated, 
Sarcastic & cynical look on his face.

Bobby-If I'm, I mean, ehhem, if we are to find out the worthiness of this pursuit & why he gave it to me, the truth will be revealed with what ever is at the end of this map. His last words were The Tripod is the key. 

Greg- That map doesn't look authentic, are you sure you're not pulling my rams horns? 

Andy - I'm not sure if you were listening but we are all about to find out what we are really made of. BTW you pulled your own horns last week, remember,  elbow jab to Greg's side.

Bobby- If you two delicate lilly flowers decide to join me, we will most certainly face dangers & situations that are beyond our limited comprehension, factors that are out of our control, demons & their Giant offspring, even. Half man half demon or like our forefathers called them, the gods.

Greg- How are we going to prepare for this journey? 

Andy- What about finance & provisions? 

Bobby- Solon left me his books, we could sell 2-3 of them to finance our quest. Provisions & finalized planning will come when we have the money.

What I have gleaned over the years is nothing usually goes to plan so we must improvise along the way. Say goodbye to your family & friends because we leave to fulfill our destinies together in 2 week's time. Pray to the god's for our success.  Meet me back here in 3 days time.
All three Friend's agree to disperse, saying goodbye with a fist & elbow hit pointed vertically. 
3 days Later- Same location- Morning 

Friends discuss popular theories of the day, curious about science, mathematics,  spirituality. 
