5 tips for more business
Building up a steady pipeline of work requires not just quality of services, but also good relationship-building skills and personalized, attractive marketing tools.

Learn how to build your painting business with these easy techniques.
Develop New Referrals
Referrals are a powerful tool. They go a long way towards building your business reputation and helping you get more jobs. So when a customer compliments your work, don't hesitate to ask if they know someone who might need a painter.
You should also ask satisfied customers for a testimonial of their experience and add it, along with some pictures of the job, to your portfolio and website. Follow up on referrals promptly, and impress potential new customers with your portfolio when you first meet with them.
Build Relationships with Your Customers
A great way to consolidate relationships with existing customers for follow-up jobs—and get referrals—is to always thank the person who sent you a referral. They will appreciate the fact that you acknowledged their recommendation.
You can send them a thank-you note or, even better, a gift. The gift should be something that ties into the project you did for them. For example, you could give your client a plant if you did an exterior job.
Collaborate with Other Local Businesses
Establishing relationships with related local businesses such as home design, flooring, furnishings or color consultants is a great way to get painting jobs, leads and professional referrals. Distribute your business cards to other business owners and discuss how you can work together to develop a mutually beneficial relationship.
Join the World of Social Media
Today's business environment is technology-driven, and the world of social media keeps growing in importance. Many of your current and potential customers are already online—as well as your competition. So to get more painting jobs and build your business, start networking online by joining facebook® or other social media sites and interact with your customers online.
It will both strengthen your relationships and lead to new referrals.
Check us out at facebook.com/benjaminmoorepaints and visit our Experts Exchange feature, which enables painting professionals like you to voice their opinions on a variety of topics and provide feedback to consumers seeking professional advice. Find out how to join the Experts Exchange.
Read more about using social media to increase your business.
Create Customized Marketing Materials
In today's competitive economy, in which you must find new ways to promote your business and differentiate yourself from others, having marketing tools at your fingertips is essential. They can help you be discovered by potential customers and generate new business from referrals. Regardless of who you are targeting, marketing tools can make a huge difference in staying top of mind with those customers.
