Roofing

On Thu, Jun 2, 2016 at 12:44 AM, Michael Parks<rajomija@gmail.com> wrote:

Here is the procedures we do.

PREPARATION PHASE. 

We put rags in the down spouts to prevent debris from clogging drains and down spouts. 

We lay plywood and tarps to prevent damage to plants and siding.

We will tear off all materials down to skip sheeting or wood under-layment)) 

We will put the garbage into a trailer and haul off each day.  ( We do not use dumpsters)   

We recycle the materials when ever possible. 

We remove or hammer down all fasteners (nails and staples.) to provide a metal free surface which will prevent tears in new materials.

We will blow off roof of debris, chips and dust to to provide a clean smooth surface. 

RE-ROOF PHASE. 

if your roof requires it we will lay down a wood underlay-ment to have a complete surface to nail on. This extra step is included in the estimate thus there is no additional costs.  

If your roof has a wooden under-layment but has some rotted areas we must replace those areas.  We will add the first sheet of wooden under-layment at no cost.  If there are more needed we will take photos of the bad areas and discuss with you the cost of adding other wooden sheets. When we inspect the roof before giving a quote we have a good idea if there are rotted areas and we will discuss this issue before providing a quote so there are no additional costs.  

We will lay down a high end synthetic under-layment.  ( this used to be made of tar paper) We put Titanium UDL 30 Weight since it is very strong and will never tear. It is considered one of the best products in the industry. 

We will construct metal valleys.  We have many years of experience in the roofing business and have repaired thousands of roofs. One of the most common leaks occurs when roof do not have metal valleys.  Debris mud and sand collects in valleys under the singles.  The tar paper under the shingles rots and cracks over time especially by the nails and the debris backs water which finds it's way to the rotted areas and causes serious issues and leaks. We will install an extra layer of 3 layered gummy under-layment in the valleys known as Titanium PSU 30 Weight. This product will be applied next to chimneys, behind wall to roof flashings, under can vents and pipe flashings.  This extra layer of protection ensures that the roof will never leak. An additional benefit of this high end material is that when the weather heats up the gummy core melts and seals the nails further preventing leaks instead of causing the tar paper to dry out and crack. 

We use enameled edge metals. Edges require a "T" or edge metal to prevent water from finding its way under the shingles and causing the rotting of the underlayment wood and fascia boards.  We use only enameled metals because they do not rust nor corrode unlike cheap galvanized types. We will install edge metal next to the gutters to permit the proper flow of water into the gutters.  This will protect the fascia boards and roof from rotting.

The edges of the roof near the gutters will have a starter course of shingle material. This will add protection and the prevention of leaks. 

Edges under the eaves will be fitted with a high grade smooth plywood if there is not existing ones.  Other products such as OSB or poor grade plywood will rot and leak over time.  Thus we will provide the best material to prevent future  problems 

We will use "shorties" a nail that is short under the eaves in order that nails are not piercing through the plywood under the eaves. 

We will install the roof with the type and color of shingles chosen by the home owner.  These type and colors will be approved by the Home Owners Association Rules and Regulations. 

We offer a meeting with the home owner and the local Roofing Materials Companies to assist the home owner with their information gathering and options.  We have a good relationships with all these companies and can provide a meeting at no extra cost. 

We recommend Malarkey Brand shingles when ever possible because they have the best polymers on the market and are locally made. . 

All ridges and field shingles will color and style match.  They will be new and first grade( no seconds will be used)  All metals will be color matched and the color will be chosen by the home owner.  

all nails and other fasteners will be of the highest caliber and each shingle will be attacked with the proper number of nails to ensure that the roof can be given its warranty from the material company.  Note we pay are employees by the hour rather than by the square to make sure the roof is installed properly rather than quickly and poorly. 

VENTILATION. Proper ventilation is important for several reasons:

Poorly vented attics provide the medium for mold growth.  This can cause serious health issues and costly repairs. Poorly vented attics trap hot air and heat roof materials causing the roof shingles and shakes to wear out faster. Poorly vented attics cause the roof to be heated which assists the moss to grow causing costly maintenance and reduces the life of the roof.  Poorly vented roofs heat the attic adding cooling costs in the summer. Poorly vented attics DISQUALIFIES the roof from receiving a Materials Warranty from the Materials Companies. 

We will inspect the attic to ensure that the attic and roof have the proper air intake and air exist to prevent the above mentioned problems and qualify for the Material Warranty as specified by the Material Company. 

We will inspect the current air intake system. If the air intake system has insufficient air intake from blocked soffitts we will refit them. If the ventilation system is missing soffitts or no has no air intake we will add soffitts or refit the roof with edge vents. We will discuss these issues and options with the home owner prior to providing and estimate. 

Bathroom and kitchen fan air exist vents will be installed with the proper hooded vents. Often roofing companies will attach the air exist pipes to a can vent to save money.  These can vents have a very fine screen which will trap materials over time causing a blockage which will in turn prevents moisture and heat from existing the attic.  This will cause heat and moisture to sit in the attic causing the ventilation  problems mentioned above.  The installment of the proper hooded air exist vents helps qualify the roof for the Materials Warranties. 

We will install 150% of code requirements of either can vents( for air exit) or offer an ridge vent to make sure there is plenty of air exist. Once the job has been done we certify that the roof has proper ventilation in order that the roof can receive the Materials Warranty offered by the Materials Company.

CLEAN UP.

We will clean up all the roofing debris. We will use a magnet roller to find remove any hidden metals. We will haul away all roofing garbage.

We will check downspouts by using a hose to make sure they are flowing properly.

We will put down spout screens at no cost to prevent future debris from plugging down spouts 

WARRANTIES

We will provide a 20 year Aden Roofing No Leak Labor Warranty.( exceptions are issues caused by "Acts of God" ) 

"Acts of God" In the event of a storm, earthquake or other natural disaster Aden Roofing will assist home owner apply for insurance compensation at no charge.  

We will certify that the ventilation system is constructed better than required and therefore qualifies for the Materials Warranty. 

We will assist the home owner apply on-line for the Materials Warranty. 

All Warranties and Benefits are "transferable" In the event the home is sold the above mentioned Warranty and Benefits remain with the home and are transferred  to the new owner.

FUTURE BENEFITS

One year after the work is performed the home owner can request an inspection to make sure the roof is working properly.  This will include a freed gutter cleaning. 

Any information or assistance from ADEN ROOFING can be had by calling Michael Parks @ 503 476 7572.
